docs: cluster + replica explanation (#12650)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/overview/key-concepts.md

**Views** | Views represent queries of sources and other views that you want to save for repeated execution.
**Indexes** | Indexes represent query results stored in memory.
**Sinks** | Sinks represent output streams or files that Materialize sends data to.

> **Clusters** | Clusters represent the logical set of objects you want to compute.

Reviewer: Would it be fundamentally wrong to just say that "Clusters represent a set of objects that share compute resources"?

> **Clusters** | Clusters represent the logical set of objects you want to compute.

Author: I think it's important to emphasize that clusters are abstract, so left in "logical" but tried to get at both of these suggestions.

> **Clusters** | Clusters represent a logical set of indexes and sinks that share physical resources.
> **Cluster replicas** | Cluster replicas provide physical resources for a cluster's indexes and sinks.

## Clusters

Clusters are logical components that let you express resource isolation for all
dataflow-powered objects, e.g. indexes and sinks. When creating dataflow-powered
objects, you must specify which cluster you want to use. (Not naming a cluster
explicitly uses your session's default cluster.)

Importantly, clusters are strictly a logical component; they rely on  [cluster
replicas](#cluster-replicas) to run dataflows. Said a slightly different way, a
cluster with no replicas does no computation. For example, if you create an
index on a cluster with no replicas, you cannot select from that index because
there is no physical representation of the index to read from.

Though clusters only represent the logic of which objects you want to bundle
together, this impacts the performance characteristics once you provision
cluster replicas. Each object in a cluster gets instantiated on every replica,

> meaning they are all in contention for the same physical resources. To achieve

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meaning that on a given physical replica, are objects in the cluster are in contention for the same physical resources. To achieve
```

The text as written is a little ambiguous IMO. My suggestion is choppy but demonstrates the intent!

the performance you need, this might require setting up more than one cluster.

### Deployment options

When building your Materialize deployment, you can change its performance
characteristics by...

Action | Outcome
-------|---------
Adding clusters + decreasing dataflow density | Reduced contention among dataflows, decoupled dataflow availability
Adding replicas to clusters | See [Cluster replica scaling](#cluster-replica-scaling)

## Cluster replicas

Where clusters represent the logical set of dataflows you want to maintain,
cluster replicas are their physical counterparts. Cluster replicas are where
Materialize actually creates and maintains dataflows.

Each cluster replica is essentially a clone, constructing the same dataflows.
Each cluster replica receives a copy of all data that comes in from sources its

> dataflows use, and uses the data to performs identical computations. This design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dataflows use, and uses the data to perform identical computations. This design
```

provides Materialize with active replication, and so long as one replica is
still reachable, the cluster continues making progress.

This also means that all of a cluster's dataflows contend for the same resources
on each replica. This might mean, for instance, that instead of placing many
complex materialized views on the same cluster, you choose some other
distribution, or you replace all replicas in a cluster with more powerful
machines.

### Deployment options

Materialize is an active-replication-based system, which means you expect each
cluster replica to have the same working set.

With this in mind, when building your Materialize deployment, you can change its
performance characteristics by...

Action | Outcome
---------|---------

> Increase replicas' memory + CPU | Ability to maintain more dataflows or more complex dataflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Increase replicas' size | Ability to maintain more dataflows or more complex dataflows
```

Since user's can't directly increase a replica's memory + CPU.
